---
layout: single
toc: true
toc_label: "Table of contents"
title:  "Spring AoP"
date:   2022-12-30 11:42:00 +0800
categories: Kafka
---

# What is Kafka

Kafka is an event streaming platform used to collect, process, and store streaming event data or data that has no discrete beginning or end. 

## Features

1. Fast: no perceptible lag, however, the procesoor itself may still block the pipe.
2. High accuracy: 
3. It maintains the order (with proper configuration)
4. Resilient: replicated

However, setting up kafka cluster is not simple. Some vendors can help manage kafka, like Google Cloud Platform or Aliyun.

# Use cases

## Decouple system dependencies

Events are asynchronously handled, the producer does not need to care about the handling or outcome. The real time system or when
the producer need to know the outcome, we should consider the trade-offs.

## Messaging

## Location tracking

## Data gathering

Kafka is good at processing large volumne of data and can be easily scaled.

# APIs

## Producer API

Create records (kafka messages) and push them to topics (bus). The topics can hold the data for a period of time, which can be even in terms of days.

## Consumer API

Subscribe topics. 

## Streams API

Combine both producer API and consumer API. It can consume data, then aggregate, anaylze and transform data, and push result to old or another topic.

## Connector API

Configure data source.

# Reference
[What is Kafka (YouTube)](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aj9CDZm0Glc)

[What is Kafka (Google Cloud)](https://cloud.google.com/learn/what-is-apache-kafka)
